{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
AIM :\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 To develop a programmable timed alert system using Arduino that activates both visual (LED) and auditory (buzzer) indicators at defined intervals and to analyze the timing precision using delay-based and interrupt-based approaches.\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 COMPONENTS REQUIRED :\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \'95 Arduino Uno\uc0\u8232 \'95 LED\u8232 \'95 220\u937  Resistor\u8232 \'95 Piezo Buzzer\u8232 \'95 Breadboard\u8232 \'95 Jumper Wires\u8232 \'95 USB Cable\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 THEORY :\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Arduino UNO:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Arduino Uno is a microcontroller board based on the ATmega328P. It contains digital input/output pins that can be programmed to control external electronic devices such as LEDs and buzzers. It operates at 5V and is programmed using the Arduino IDE.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 LED (Light Emitting Diode):\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 An LED is a semiconductor device that emits light when electric current passes through it. It is used as a visual indicator in embedded systems. A 220\uc0\u937  resistor is connected in series with the LED to limit current and protect the component.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Buzzer:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 A buzzer is an electronic audio signaling device used to produce sound alerts. It converts electrical signals into audible tones and is commonly used in alarm and notification systems.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Delay-Based Timing:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The 
\f2\fs26 delay()
\f1\fs24  function pauses program execution for a specified time interval. It is simple to implement but blocks other operations during the delay period, reducing multitasking capability and timing efficiency.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Interrupt-Based Timing:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Interrupt-based timing uses hardware timers to execute tasks at precise intervals without stopping the processor. This approach provides better timing accuracy and is more suitable for real-time systems.\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 PROCEDURE:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Connect the anode (long leg) of the LED to digital pin 12 of Arduino through a 220\uc0\u937  resistor.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Connect the cathode (short leg) of the LED to GND.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Connect the positive terminal of the buzzer to digital pin 9.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Connect the negative terminal of the buzzer to GND.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Place the components on the breadboard and ensure proper connections.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Connect Arduino Uno to the computer using a USB cable.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Open Arduino IDE and write the program.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Upload the code to the Arduino board.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	9	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Observe the LED glowing and buzzer sound at fixed intervals.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 CIRCUIT DIAGRAM:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \'95 LED anode \uc0\u8594  220\u937  resistor \u8594  Pin 12\u8232 \'95 LED cathode \u8594  GND\u8232 \'95 Buzzer positive terminal \u8594  Pin 9\u8232 \'95 Buzzer negative terminal \u8594  GND\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 CODE:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs26 \cf0 #define LED 12\
#define buz 9\
\
void setup()\
\{\
  pinMode(LED, OUTPUT);\
  pinMode(buz, OUTPUT);\
\}\
\
void loop()\
\{\
  digitalWrite(LED, HIGH);\
  digitalWrite(buz, HIGH);\
\
  delay(1000);\
\
  digitalWrite(LED, LOW);\
  digitalWrite(buz, LOW);\
\
  delay(2000);\
\}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\uc0\u11835 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 EXPECTED OUTPUT:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \'95 The LED glows and the buzzer produces sound for 1 second.\uc0\u8232 \'95 Both the LED and buzzer remain OFF for 2 seconds.\u8232 \'95 The process repeats continuously at fixed intervals.\u8232 \'95 The alert system provides both visual and auditory indications.\
\
\uc0\u11835 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 INFERENCE:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The programmable timed alert system using Arduino was implemented successfully using an LED and buzzer. The delay-based approach generated alerts at fixed intervals but blocked the processor during execution. Interrupt-based timing methods provide higher precision, better responsiveness, and improved multitasking capability. Therefore, interrupt-based approaches are more suitable for real-time alert systems requiring accurate timing control.\
}